welcome to my unboxing of the Diablo 3
mouse from Steel series so this isn't
the first time SteelSeries has released
a license blizzard product but this is
the first time that I've seen their
mouse
be basically just like a themed version
of one of their other mice which I
already know is awesome so I don't even
have to speculate in fact my SteelSeries
eye is right over there I use it on my
test bench and it is a fantastic mouse
so it can only be made better by like
Diablo themed artwork and a Diablo
themed GUI that allows you to easily map
okay here look I'll let them worried it
the way they want to quick and
effortlessly remap the mouse buttons
with drag-and-drop predefined game
actions and functions and skills as well
as elimination settings all of which are
easily configured in the thing that
looks like this we're gonna load up the
driver and show you guys on the computer
behind me in a minute but let's talk
about what else SteelSeries has to say
about this mouse first optimal comfort
with an ambidextrous shape and size
making it versatile for all types of
gamer grips the zai is that as well
so there you go that's pretty
straightforward 7 ergonomically placed
organically organ Amma Klee placed
programmable buttons world's most
durable switches so these are Omron
switches guaranteed for 10 million
clicks which means that no matter how
high your actions per minute actually if
you know your actions per minute then
you can actually calculate exactly how
long this mouse is guaranteed to last
for you if you sat and gamed like 100
percent of the time until it died well
you'd probably die first but there you
go
there you go the mouse that lives longer
than you ah programmable Diablo 3 themed
illumination options so that's the
scroll wheel the CPI indicator as well
as the logo at the back and durable
double braided nylon cord with gold
plated USB connector now this brings me
back to a video I did recently which is
totally unrelated to this where I
compared the performance of an SSD drive
with various SATA cables including SATA
2 cables and SATA 3 cables and there was
a lot of debate after that video where I
basically determined that it didn't
affect the performance about why the
performance wasn't affected or what kind
of cables they were or whatnot and there
were a lot of comments about how it
would have been better if it was
gold-plated or silver
and a lot of debate about what's the
best conductor so I'm gonna settle this
once and for all silver is the best
electrical conductor better than copper
but it's expensive silver also has the
enormous disadvantage of easily
tarnishing that is it easily oxidizes
when it's exposed to air so that means
that there is a less conductive layer
that forms almost immediately with
silver okay so that's why we use copper
because it's cheap and it doesn't
tarnish now why do we use gold to plate
the end of a connector if it's not as
good of a conductor as either silver or
copper why do you think that is the
reason is that gold is malleable gold is
soft so what that means is that every
time you insert it the gold is able to
actually make a very small very very
small but it'll give way a little bit to
the metal from the other end of the
connector making you able to have a
perfect connection every time that is
why we gold plate connectors also it
never tarnishes and never oxidizes that
is why we use gold not because it is the
best conductor
so that is why SteelSeries has gold
plating on the connectors inside there
and then this is unnecessary but it
looks like they've also gold-plated the
outer housing those are the important
parts though those got to be gold-plated
so here's the double braided nylon cord
which actually feels like thicker than
most of the braided cords that I've
encountered in the past also has a
little red stripe just you know kind of
neat
haven't seen that before either all
right here it only makes sense that
since I recently unboxed some Diablo 3
mouse pads here let's go with let's go
with the plain-jane Diablo 3 one so here
you know showcase it there so let's
let's go over the overall the overall
Mouse here so what makes this mouse
truly ambidextrous because lots of mice
have ambidextrous shapes is the fact
that all of the buttons are equally
accessible regardless of whether you use
it with a right hand
or a left hand because check this out
you've got your front and back buttons
here remember these are all fully
programmable so if you're left-handed
you can make this back in your browser
and this forward in your browser and
you've got them on the other side so
that means that if you're right-handed
you can program these two
something with your other fingers and
use them like this and if you're
left-handed and you can do it the other
way around
you've also got your CPI change button
although you can change the sorry yeah
your CPI change button as well as your
CPI indicator LED so remember
SteelSeries uses CPI because according
to their literature it is a more
accurate representation of the actual
sensitivity of the mouse that has the
counts per inch
they believe is more accurate than dots
per inch so they always use CPI to rate
their mice
so unlike their competitors SteelSeries
allows you to adjust your CPI in fairly
small increments the Akari laser that I
have actually allows increments of 1 CPI
but it's not quite that granular anymore
this one allows adjustments in 100 CPI
switch is still better than most of
their competitors which are more like
along the lines of like 400 800 1200
1600 and those are the only intervals
that you can pick so they still give you
a great degree of granularity and you
just use this button to switch between
them so they are some of the most
customizable mice on the market because
you can change everything from your from
your I can't even remember what it's
called but you can change how much
correction it adds to a straight line
can't remember what it's called so I
have mine set to absolutely none zero
correction and then you can have you
have a bunch of settings in between and
you can actually properly control all of
your sensitivities your average plain
gin and even some of your high-end mice
do not allow you to do that they go with
400 800 1200 well that's not granular
enough so there you go that's why I
personally love steel series mice not
really sure where I was going with that
anymore steel series gaming great engine
at the bottom we've got our slippy pads
which I'm sure there's probably a more
you know official name for them this is
a laser mouse so you got your little
laser class1 logo so basically don't put
your eye right up to this and turn it on
you know it's not good on the top of the
mouse right right I was telling talking
about the CPI button there we go I'm
caught up again hey check this out
they've upgraded the scroll wheel so
that is a clickable button and then it
is also a rubberized like Diablo 3
looking scrolling wheel thing going on
you know what I already like this mouse
a lot more than his eye and that is for
one major reason cuz I for all its
awesomeness
is not as grippy overall this is a very
plasticky shiny slippery surface
compared to the Diablo 3 Mouse which has
as I accidentally spat on it while I was
talking they're much better now okay
whereas this one has like a rubberized
soft touch feel throughout the entire
Mouse I personally find it easier to
pick up a mouse that has that finish on
it and I find it to be less clammy
feeling especially when you game for a
while and you get a little bit sweaty
the Diablo 3 logo here at the back
lights up and I think we've covered the
physical attributes of the mouse pretty
well now let's go ahead and install the
install the drivers so we're having a
quick look at the software which
actually provides an astounding amount
of customization I mean it's it's at the
point where it's actually a little bit
ridiculous because you go ahead you
click on a button you can change
everything about it from the name to the
tooltip to the key color to the text
color that shows up to the key font you
can change from action types like macros
launch applications sable key you can
record delays or not record delays when
you're doing your macros there's a dance
edit option here too well edit macros in
a more advanced way you can create
different profiles and your profiles can
be for different types of characters
within the game Diablo 3 or within
whatever other game you want in spite of
the fact that this is Diablo three
themed you can actually use it in a lot
of different ways so there's single keys
here comes with a bunch of
pre-configured stuff and then there's
custom oops
yeah custom ones here that you can
create using the new action button down
here alright what else we got in here so
moving over to the Settings tab we see
we can adjust the CPI so the counts per
inch so that's either with the LED off
or the LED on you have two easy switch
profiles that we can switch between we
can also adjust the polling rate and the
lighting on the mouse so I haven't
actually shown the lighting on the mouse
yet but check it out
the Diablo 3 logo CPI indicator as well
as the mouse wheel are all illuminated
so it can pulsate fast or slow and it
can be brighter or less bright ok what
else we got here moving over to
properties so we can set different
profiles to launch when different
trigger games are launched and check
this out this is statistics so this is
like an odometer for your mouse so you
can go either currents
or lifetime clicks and it will actually
track according to this this zone up
here how many times like how often that
mouse button gets used in relation to
the other one so clearly on the left
click kind of guy and I don't use my
middle click very often however if I
take my middle click and I click it like
50 times here you're gonna see that if I
navigate away from here a solo sorry
this is gonna take a second guys still
clicking okay done clicking now I'm just
gonna like navigate away and come back
and my middle click huh it's using
lifetime clicks now right I think it
takes a second to update so give it a
minute yeah there we go so my left
button now has much less frequency in
relation to Oh was I accidentally
clicking the right button while I was
doing that
Oh oops whatever so it readjusts
according to what buttons you press
kinda hilarious so thank you for
checking out my unboxing and first look
at the Diablo 3 mouse don't forget to
subscribe to Linus tech tips for more
unboxings reviews another computer video